Welcome back everyone.
And part two of optical flow open.
We're going to check out dense optical flow.
We're actually going to check out the entire image and then highlight points that are moving based on
the direction they're moving in.
Let's go ahead and check it out by hopping over the Jupiter notebook.
All right.
Here I am in the notebook that we left off last time.
So previously one had and use the Lucas Kanade method for optical flow tracking a few points and then
drawing lines from their previous position to their next position.
Now we're going to do is just taking the entire image and then color points that we believe are moving.
And one of the functions we're going to be using is the dense optical flow function.
And as a quick point it takes a lot of parameters.
So he suggests we check out the notebook that goes along this lecture.
And if you scroll down to dense optical flow and open C.V we have an entire breakdown of all the parameters
that it takes for this particular function that we're going to be using.
So keep that in mind.
We're going to be providing essentially just a bunch of different parameters so just a bunch of numbers
there we can check out what each of those numbers represents.
By reading out these parameters that are going into the calque optical flow of foreign back function.
So I'll come back here and we'll begin in case you haven't already import CB2 and important up-I as
the next we're going to do is set up our video capture we'll say video capture here.
And then passen zero and I'm going to be streaming this directly from a USP camera.
And then let's grab the first frame we'll call it frame 1 and they'll just be the first time we actually
read in and we'll say the previous image is equal to and essentially just turning this into scale.
A lot of the things we did in the previous lecture were repeating again here.
So taking that first frame and convert it to grayscale saying CV to dot color underscore are two and
then gray then we're going to do is we're gonna actually set up an H S V based mask number that says
for hue saturation and value will say HSV mask is equal to the zeros.
Now we're going to say zeros like that first frame and then we're going to do is say HSP mask and we
grab all x and y points along the saturation channel and set them equal to 255 fully saturated.
And if you're wondering what HSV stands for Again it's hue saturation value.
Go ahead and check out the color mapping lecture.
For more information on that but now we're going to do a wild true will grab.
Essentially what the current Framus we'll call it frame to and we're going to read that in.
And our main idea here is to compare the previous entire image to the current entire image.
So we will say that the next image and so are going to copy and paste this line here except it's frame
to now.
So we have the greyscale versions of the image and now we're going to do is say flow and calculate the
optical flow given the built in function.
So that's calque optical flow and we're using now the foreign back function and that takes in the previous
image.
So we'll see a previous image Elsa takes in the next image and then if you do shift tab here you can
check out all the parameters it takes in.
Again I'm just going to provide a bunch of defaults that tend to work well and you can be into play
around these defaults if your video doesn't actually work.
But these defaults should work for you since it is taking in the entire image not actually looking at
any specific points.
So I would recommend you use the same defaults.
So say none 0.5.
Three fifteen three five 1.2 and zero.
And essentially these are just different parameters for the number of pyramid layers to use the average
window size.
And then how many iterations that do.
So these are just parameters.
Go ahead and use the defaults they should work for you regardless of the incoming video.
Now before we continue I want to take a brief moment to explain.
We're going to be doing with this particular object that is the flow object after running that function.
We're going to have a flow object containing vector flow Cartesian information essentially a vector
pointing at which direction the flow for each pixel was happening in.
But it's giving us the x and y coordinates that can define that particular vector.
What we're going to do is convert that into polar coordinates that convert that to magnitude an angle
of that vector with that information.
We can then map this onto our hue saturation value Color Mapping so we can then take the angle that
we calculated and the magnitude and choose a hue and saturation.
That means if things move in a particular direction the all be color the same way.
So if everything moves to the left they may all be colored red.
If things move to the right they'll be colored blue.
So that's what we're going to be doing here in our actual code.
Let's check it out.
This means that the next step is to actually convert this flow into polar coordinates and grab the magnitude
and angle of these flow vectors by simply using a built in function called cart to polar and this allows
you to pass in Cartesian coordinates of vectors and convert them to polar coordinates so that flow object
we're going to say for every pixel and x and y.
So we'll say colon Colin go ahead and grab the horizontal information.
And then again for every pixel and x and y grab the vertical information which is stored in Channel
1 essentially the x and y coordinates for every vector of every pixel in the image.
Then convert them to magnitude an angle.
And if you check this out and you shift tab you'll notice by default after reading this it returns the
angle in radians actually want the angle in degrees.
So I'm going to copy this and then pass that in as a flag for true.
So now that the angle has been returned in degrees we're going to do the following.
We're going to grab our HSV mask and then say for all those pixels we're going to do is grab the hewe
and I'm going to define it based off the angle but I'm going to find that based off the angle divided
by two.
That way I don't get so many huse.
Instead I'm just looking at half the hues it's going to help us actually distinguish information on
left right up and down a little clearer than if I just did the right angle.
So essentially from 360 degrees to 180.
So look at those values and half and they will say HSP umask and then I'm going to grab Channel 2 which
is going to be the actual value an iguana it's to find the value based off the magnitudes or say to
normalize the magnitude and take it and normalize it to be between 0 and 255 using C-v to Norm underscore
min max essentially just stretching the min and max to now fit between 0 and 255.
Next we have our blue green red image.
So say CB2 CVT color and convert our HSV mask back into something we can splay.
So say CB2 color HSV 2 BGR and we're doing BGR because we're going to be using Emco from CB2 will say
C-v to show.
And then just subframe and then pass in our final BGR image then we're going to need a way to exit all
this all safe.
K to wait key.
Just 10 milliseconds and all say and 0 x f.f if K is equal to 27 wups equals equals to 27.
Essentially saying someone hit the escape.
Go ahead and break.
And after all this it's important that we reset the image so that our previous image is now equal to
our next image.
So the cycle continues.
Then outside of the loop I'm going to release the capture and then I'm going to destroy all windows
and then save the changes.
OK let's quickly do a quick review.
What we're doing here.
Essentially I'm capturing video just so we did it last time I'm converting it to grayscale for the previous
image and creating this HSV mask which we learned about so that we can actually color based off direction.
And then I grab this flow object containing a bunch of vector information and convert that the polar
coordinates which then allows me to color the image based off the hue.
And there's going to be a really cool effect that we're about to see.
So it run this make sure we didn't create any typos.
So it looks like it's running.
Want to bring up my window here and you'll see my face.
But one thing we do is I know to deliberately move to one side.
So notice here as I move from let's say the left to the right it appears that it's red.
So I don't do that again with my whole body.
I'm going to start from the left and then go to the right and then it's red and if I go from right to
left it's actually blue.
Or it is color and it doesn't matter what the object is it's going to calculate that direction and then
color that way.
So in one direction it's red.
And then in another direction it's blue and I'm not able to do this perfectly horizontally so that's
what you see a couple of other colors.
But in general we can see blue and red for the horizontal and then if I move up it does purple and then
move down.
It is green.
Same for the hand.
It's going to be a little clear at the hand because I have more space to work with.
So up is purple and then down is some green.
And as I kind of twist my hand there it's a little hard to tell but hopefully you can begin to kind
of play around these effects yourself.
And then this is called dense optical flow because we're doing this for every single image in this actual
feed of the frame.
And things are still then it'll color them black.
See you should only be able to see things that are moving and as certain things move much clearer than
others then you won't see the background.
So if you try to stand perfectly still it will still try to detect some minor movements which is why
you see me kind of coming in and out of frame.
All right.
So that's it for dense optical flow.
I hope you found this pretty cool.
We'll see at the next lecture.